EMBARGOED UNTIL RELEASE AT 8:30 a.m. EDT, Thursday, July 30, 2026                                                                                 BEA 26–35

Technical:         Lisa Mataloni (GDP)                                     301-278-9083                               GDPNIWD@bea.gov
Media:             Connie O’Connell                                        301-278-9003                               Connie.OConnell@bea.gov



             GDP (Advance Estimate), 2nd Quarter 2026
Real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 1.5 percent in the second quarter of
2026 (April, May, and June), according to the advance estimate released today by the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis (BEA). In the first quarter, real GDP increased 2.1 percent.
                                   Real GDP, Percent Change From Preceding Quarter
       Seasonally adjusted annual rates

       5.0
       4.0
       3.0
       2.0
       1.0
       0.0
      –1.0
                        Q1                      Q2                     Q3                      Q4                      Q1                     Q2
                                                          2025                                                                   2026
       GDP Gross domestic product
       U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis

The contributors to the increase in real GDP in the second quarter were increases in consumer spending,
investment, and exports that were partly offset by a decrease in government spending. Imports, which
are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. For more information, refer to the "Technical
Notes" below.
                                    Contributions to the Percent Change in Real GDP, 2026:Q2
      Percentage points                                          Real GDP increased 1.5 percent
      Seasonally adjusted annual rates
      3.00
      2.00
      1.00
      0.00
    – 1.00
    – 2.00
                  Real GDP,           Consumer spending           Investment              Government                 Exports                Imports
                percent change
    GDP Gross domestic product
    Note. Imports are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP. An increase in imports results in a negative contribution to GDP, and a decrease in imports
    results in a positive contribution to GDP.
    U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
Compared to the first quarter, the deceleration in real GDP in the second quarter reflected a downturn
in government spending and decelerations in investment and exports that were partly offset by an
acceleration in consumer spending. Imports increased more in the second quarter than in the first
quarter.

Real final sales to private domestic purchasers, the sum of consumer spending and gross private fixed
investment, increased 3.9 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 1.7 percent in
the first quarter.

The price index for gross domestic purchases increased 5.7 percent in the second quarter, compared
with an increase of 3.6 percent in the first quarter. The personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price
index increased 5.1 percent, compared with an increase of 4.6 percent, and the PCE price index
excluding food and energy increased 3.4 percent, compared with an increase of 4.4 percent.

                                                  Quarter-to-Quarter Change in Prices
      Percent change
      Seasonally adjusted annual rates
      6.0
      5.0
      4.0
      3.0
      2.0
      1.0
      0.0
                      Q1                     Q2              Q3               Q4              Q1                  Q2
                                                     2025                                              2026

                      Gross domestic purchases price index          PCE price index         PCE, excluding food and energy

      PCE Personal consumption expenditures
      U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis



                                                  Real GDP and Related Measures
                                         [Percent change (SAAR) from 2026:Q1 to 2026:Q2]
                                                                                      Advance estimate
                Real GDP                                                                    1.5
                Current-dollar GDP                                                          7.9
                Real final sales to private domestic purchasers                             3.9
                Gross domestic purchases price index                                        5.7
                PCE price index                                                             5.1
                PCE price index, excluding food and energy                                  3.4




                                                             Page 2 of 6
                Annual Update of the National and Regional Economic Accounts

With improvements in the concurrent production of BEA statistics, the 2026 annual updates of
national, industry, and regional data will begin on the same day for the first time: September 30,
2026. The annual update of the National Economic Accounts includes GDP, gross domestic
income, GDP by industry, monthly personal income and outlays, and related statistics in the
National Income and Product Accounts and the Industry Economic Accounts. The update of the
Regional Economic Accounts includes GDP by state and by county, personal income by state and
by county, and related statistics. For details, refer to "Information on 2026 Annual Updates to the
National, Industry, State, and County Statistics."




    For definitions, statistical conventions, updates to GDP, and more information about national
                                  statistics, visit “Additional Information.”




                        Next release: August 26, 2026, at 8:30 a.m. EDT
                 GDP (Second Estimate) and Corporate Profits, 2nd Quarter 2026




                                            Page 3 of 6
                                                     Technical Notes
Sources of change for real GDP

Real GDP increased at an annual rate of 1.5 percent (0.4 percent at a quarterly rate1) in the second
quarter, reflecting increases in consumer spending, investment, and exports that were partly offset by a
decrease in government spending. Imports increased.

More information on the source data and BEA assumptions that underlie the second-quarter estimate is
shown in the key source data and assumptions table.

    •    The increase in consumer spending reflected increases in both goods and services.

              o    Within goods, the increase was led by other nondurable goods (mainly, prescription
                   drugs), based on Census Bureau Monthly Retail Trade Survey (MRTS) data for all three
                   months of the quarter; motor vehicles and parts (led by new light trucks), based
                   primarily on Wards Intelligence unit sales data and IHS-Polk registrations data; and
                   furnishings and durable household equipment (led by furniture), based on Census
                   Bureau MRTS data.

              o    Within services, the leading contributors to household consumption expenditures were
                   food services and accommodations, based on Census Bureau MRTS data, and financial
                   services and insurance (led by portfolio management), based primarily on trade volume
                   data. There was also an increase in final consumption expenditures of nonprofits, led by
                   gross output for professional advocacy.

    •    The increase in investment primarily reflected increases in equipment and intellectual property
         products that were partly offset by decreases in private inventory investment and
         nonresidential structures.

              o    Within equipment, increases were widespread, led by industrial equipment,
                   transportation equipment, and information processing equipment, based primarily on
                   data for imports from the Census Bureau-BEA U.S. International Trade in Goods and
                   Services report and the Census Bureau Advance Economic Indicators Report for June.

              o    The increase in intellectual property products reflected increases in software (mainly,
                   prepackaged software) and research and development, based primarily on a judgmental
                   trend and Bureau of Labor Statistics Current Employment Statistics.

              o    The largest contributor to the decrease in private inventory investment was wholesale
                   trade, based primarily on Census Bureau inventory book value data.




1. Percent changes in quarterly seasonally adjusted series are displayed at annual rates, unless otherwise specified. For more
information, refer to the FAQ “Why does BEA publish percent changes in quarterly series at annual rates?”.
                                                         Page 4 of 6
       o   The decrease in nonresidential structures was led by manufacturing structures, based
           on Census Bureau Value-Put-In-Place construction spending data for April and May and
           a BEA projection for June.

•   Exports and imports primarily reflected Census Bureau-BEA U.S. International Trade in Goods
    and Services data as well as the Census Bureau Advance Economic Indicators Report for June.

       o   Within exports, the increase reflected an increase in goods (led by petroleum and
           related products) that was partly offset by a decrease in services (led by travel and other
           business services, mainly financial services).

       o   Within imports, the increase primarily reflected an increase in goods, led by capital
           goods, except automotive (mainly telecommunications equipment, semiconductors and
           related devices, and industrial equipment).

•   Within government spending, the decrease was led by federal government spending, primarily
    reflecting nondefense consumption expenditures. The pattern of nondefense spending primarily
    reflected sales of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, based on data from the
    Department of Energy. Within the National Economic Accounts, sales are deducted from
    government consumption expenditures; therefore, an increase in sales results in a
    corresponding decrease in consumption expenditures. Because the oil sold by the government is
    reflected as an increase in other components of GDP, there is no direct effect on GDP.




                                          Page 5 of 6
                                           Related Data Tables

For the estimates highlighted in this release, as well as historical time series for these estimates, see the
following data tables in BEA’s Interactive Data Application.

Table 1.1.1. Percent Change From Preceding Period in Real Gross Domestic Product
Table 1.5.2. Contributions to Percent Change in Real Gross Domestic Product, Expanded Detail
Table 1.4.1. Percent Change From Preceding Period in Real Gross Domestic Product, Real Gross Domestic
Purchases, and Real Final Sales to Domestic Purchasers
Table 1.6.7. Percent Change From Preceding Period in Prices for Gross Domestic Purchases

Note. With the next release of GDP, today’s data will be superseded, and the links above will reflect the
latest data. The original data featured in this release can then be accessed in BEA’s Data Archive.




                                                 Page 6 of 6
